[Music]
have you ever been in a room full of
people yet you feel totally invisible
it's almost like you're stuck on a
deserted island unable to communicate
with anyone around you we've all been
there but if loneliness is an all too
frequent companion of yours then know
that there is something that you can do
about it first off you need to know that
when it comes to feeling lonely you're
not alone I know sounds paradoxical but
this feeling is more common than you
might think
psychologist dr. Lisa Firestone says
that among twenty thousand US adults
nearly half feel lonely you see humans
are social beings and have been that way
for thousands of years that's why we
learn about ancient tribes and colonies
in history or at least for the few of us
who actually paid attention in school
ancient tribes formed to survive the
harsh natural environment but even if
we're not hunting down our food and
trying to escape from predators today
our instincts still drive us to be with
others in the event of feeling less
connected or struggling to make
connections the feeling of loneliness is
triggered by the mind as a survival
instinct it's an innate reminder that
you have to keep trying to make social
connections in order to survive that's
why it's not something to be ashamed of
but rather a chance to learn to cope
with emotions while seeking to find new
relationships or perhaps revive old ones
but feeling lonely isn't the same as
being alone alone time can be a blissful
time needed to relax and perhaps catch
up on those hobbies you never had time
for anymore or just do nothing let's
admit it feels good to sleep in and
catch up on some much-needed me time
this doesn't mean you're lonely
loneliness is when you feel like you
have no one to talk to about the things
that matter to you you believe that
you're disconnected from everyone around
you even though you crave their
acceptance in the modern world we live
in today one of the many places we turn
to for social acceptance is naturally
social media it lets us make friends and
keep in touch with people all over the
world in just the click of a button yet
it's also deprived people of the ability
to talk and socialise in person on a
regular basis online communication lacks
a personal touch and can often hide the
true emotions expressed do you really
laugh out loud each time you type lol
exactly this is why we're becoming less
in tune to each other's feelings and it
also leads to increased feelings of
isolation even though social media has
provided new means of instant and
accessible communication it's also
creating a breakdown in personal
relationships in fact also mentions in
that study of 200,000 people only 50
percent said they had meaningful social
interactions on a daily basis now what
are the odds that these people aren't
chatting online every single day the
fact is that having thousands of
followers or friends on these social
media platforms will not make up for a
lack of human interaction and it seems
like anything can trigger this feeling
perhaps you recently moved to a new
place or maybe it feels like everyone
always seems too busy to spend time with
you whatever the reason the feeling of
loneliness is a natural reaction but it
can be a major problem if you're
constantly feeling this way and it's
keeping you from leading a happy and
healthy life
however natural the feeling may be if it
occurs too often it can have devastating
effects on your health studies have
shown that once loneliness becomes
chronic it can start breaking down your
immune system prolong loneliness can
also speed up the aging process because
it works against cell renewal
not to mention depression and lowliness
often come hand-in-hand so it's not just
your physical health that you should be
worried about but your mental well-being
too
the worst thing about loneliness is that
once it gets hold of you you have a
harder time making human connections so
this run of sorts becomes an almost
unbreakable vicious cycle but I did say
almost the good news is that you can do
something about it one recognize the
problem one of the most important things
is to recognize that your loneliness has
become an issue that it's keeping you
from achieving your goals or just living
your life denying your feelings and
assuming yeah it'll just go away
eventually or I'll distract myself with
work is not the way to go about it
you need to admit the problem before you
can start tackling them to know it's not
your fault remember it happens to
everyone and it's a natural feeling just
like anger happiness confusion or love
you're not weird or awkward or some sort
of outcast just because you feel like
you're totally isolated even when you're
surrounded by people perhaps the beauty
or the burden of being human is that we
can't control how we feel you don't get
to choose what your hearts telling you
you just have to listen to it and do
something about it 3 find solace
elsewhere now don't get me wrong this is
not about empty distractions that will
keep you from dealing with the issue it
can be anything that puts a smile on
your face whether it's a good book or a
game of fetch with your dog if you have
a hobby that brings you joy then pour
your heart into it and if you don't have
any hobbies then why not find one
for get up and get active you'd be
surprised what a change of environment
or a little exercise can do for not only
your body but your mind too
exercise helps produce endorphins which
are these chemicals in your body that
trigger happy a thoughts you don't have
to start hitting the gym or anything
just go for a stroll or a quick run in
the park to get yourself started the
sunshine and fresh air alone can easily
lift your mood you could also try yoga
to calm your mind and get your body in
shape as an added bonus 5 help someone
in need
try to turn your thoughts away from
yourself by helping others you could
volunteer at a retirement home or
perhaps help cook and distribute food at
a homeless shelter
there are also animal shelters that
would be so grateful for your assistance
helping a neighbor in the garden is a
good way to start out try anything that
will make you feel useful and important
to someone
plus you'll be interacting with other
people which is the whole reason why
your instincts are making you feel
lonely your brain wants to socialize 6
visualize your happy place
sounds a little cliche I know but it
could work even if only for a short
while close your eyes and picture
yourself somewhere you've been before
and felt happy and at peace if you can't
think of a place try to picture
somewhere you've always wanted to go and
think of all the exciting things you'd
like to do if you ever got the chance
and hey if you do have the means to get
out and see the world then traveling is
always a great way to pull yourself out
of a run 7 reach out to someone however
difficult it may be this may seem like a
contradiction how can you talk to
someone if you feel there's no one you
can turn to it can be hard to reach out
if you start feeling alone in the world
but think of someone who usually makes
you feel good about yourself or easily
gets a laugh out of you you don't have
to open up about your feelings if you
don't want to but just pick up the phone
and make contact in some way it may be
hard at first but if you keep at it then
it'll soon become second nature and
again shooting someone a DM probably
won't cut it give someone a call or
even better meet up for lunch and just
have a chat who knows they may be going
through the same thing as you and your
call will totally make their day 8:00
start a diary therapists have been
recommending this for years because it
actually works
feeling lonely means you believe you
have no one to reach out to or maybe you
just don't have a lot of friends but you
do need an outlet for your emotions a
diary creates a safe space for you to
express your feelings it won't judge you
or change the topic or interrupt you
it's just there for you to spill
everything that's on your mind
and of course don't forget that you can
combine any or all of these methods if
you have any other tips for coping with
loneliness or you'd like to share your
own experiences and sound off in the
comments below remember to give this
video a like share it with a friend and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]